## A Framework for Bus Trajectory Extraction and Missing Data Recovery for Data Sampled from the Internet

Tong C, Chen H, Xuan Q, Yang X
Sensors , 2017




Paper discusses using fuzzy C-means clustering for evaluating the likelihood that various recorded trajectories were generated by the same underlying movement behavior. I imagine this fits into paper 3 when we evaluate filling gaps with a person's own data, but also in establishing how predictable a person's own behavior is as a metric for variance estimation. Can shed light (maybe) on between vs within person variation.




> In our work, noise removal is based on the anomaly detection method




> To date, linear interpolation is the easiest, most conservative and most common interpolation method, which assumes that movement follows a straight-line path between two known points [23]. However, straight lines are not consistent with many types of path dynamics, especially for bus trajectories that include consecutive congested and non-congested roads




> Unfortunately, the mean absolute error (MAE) of those cubic interpolation methods exhibits a worse performance than the straight linear interpolation in most cases for the sampled station-level sparse arrival data.




> G(l) =  584.2000 3 1 583.0167 7 2 584.8333 12 3  , for l = 158




this paper is good for gathering some matrix notation for defining trips over users over days




> fuzzy C-means clustering (FCM) method is applied to cluster the data in G(m,l), and the trajectory fragment set is generated. T




> The first problem for FCM is how to measure the distance of trajectory data in order to get a large distance between different trajectories and a small distance in the same trajectory.




> trajectory clustering by FCM, we construct an enhanced distance metric by considering the traveling time along the route direction




> The X constructed by Equation (5) is called the forward clustering feature, and the one constructed by Equation (8) is called the backward clustering feature in this paper. Accordingly, we call the fuzzy C-means clustering with the forward clustering feature as forward FCM (F-FCM) and the one with backward clustering feature as backward FCM (B-FCM)




> fuzzy membership function (MF) to describe the relationship of arrival data in a trajectory, i.e., the introduced MF in our AD procedure describes the connecting possibility between two arrival events G(m,l) i i and G(m,l) k




> In this paper, we extend the triangular to pentagonal MF,




> data range should be extended from historical data to make a better coverage for the futur the extensions are not symmetric for the lower bound and upper bound. The shortest traveling time is restricted by the highest vehicle velocity and distance between two stations, which can be expected once the shortest distance between two adjacent stations is given.




> arrival data missing randomly occurring along the stations. F




> is contextual linear interpolation for missing data recovery (CLIMDR) for the cases of missing data inside the trajectory, a




> The CLIMDR method is implemented based on the assumption that tA1,A2 and tA1,A3 are approximately linear




> F-FCM method is suitable for the trajectories that have the right traveling direction, whereas the B-FCM method is suitable for those that have the wrong traveling directio




> Thus, missing data recovery is important for the trajectory mining of urban buses. The proposed CLIMDR method is easily implemented and outperforms when the dataset is large enough (thousands of trajectories or more)




> As compared in the figure, the performance of our method is better than those of the other two methods for almost allstations, especially for the stations with congested roads and a large MAE




> The CLIMDR-n method is suitable for the cases where n consecutive data are missing in the trajectories, and it outperforms comparable methods in most cases.




> One merit of the trajectory matrix is that the traveling time set between any two stations can be easily derived by subtracting the corresponding two columns from the matrix.




